website/docs/policy/weave-policy-profile.mdx, before:

---
title: Weave policy profile
hide_title: true
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

import TierLabel from "../_components/TierLabel";

# Weave policy profile <TierLabel tiers="enterprise" />

# Weave Policy Profile

## Overview

Weave policy profile provides policies to automate the enforcement of best practice and conventions. It ensures the compliance of workloads through the use of a policy agent that provides an admission controller webhook that stops violating resources from deploying to a cluster and runs a daily audit that reports violating resources already deployed.

---
## Policy Sources

Policies are provided in the profile as Custom Resources. The agent reads from the policies deployed on the cluster and runs them during each admission request or when auditing a resource.

Policies are hosted in a policy library which is ususally a git repository. They are fetched in the profile through the use of `kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io.Kustomization`, that deploys the policies to the cluster.

By default all policies in the specified path would be deployed in order to specify which policies should be deployed in a library, a `kustomize.config.k8s.io.Kustomization` file should be defined in the repository.

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
resources: # specifies the path to each required policy 
  - policies/ControllerContainerAllowingPrivilegeEscalation/policy.yaml
  - policies/ControllerContainerRunningAsRoot/policy.yaml
  - policies/ControllerReadOnlyFileSystem/policy.yaml
```

The profile then needs to be configured with the necessary config to be able to reach the repository that is acting as a policy library.

```
policySource:
  url: URL of the repo where your policies exist
  tag: tag name on the policies repo
  path: Path to the policies dir - or a kustomization.yaml that selects some policies - in the repo
  secretRef (if the repo is private): Name of the K8s secret with private repo credentials (leave empty if the repo is public)
```

---
## Admission Controller Setup

To enable admission control:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      enabled: true
```

Enabling admission controller requires certificates for secure communication with the webhook client and the admission server. The best way to achieve this is by installing [cert manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/) and then configuring the profile as follows:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  useCertManager: true
```

There is the option of providing previously generated certificates although it is not recommended and it is up to the user to manage it:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  certificate: "---" # admission server certificate
  key: "---" # admission server private key
  caCertificate: "---" # CA bundle to validate the webhook server, used by the client
```

If the agent webhook could not be reached or the request failed to complete, the corresponding request would be refused. To change that behavior and accepts the reuqest in cases of failure, this needs to be set:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  failurePolicy: Ignore
```

---
## Audit
Audit functionality provide a full scan on the cluster(s) and report back policy violations. This usually is used for policy violations reporting, and Compliance posture analysis against known benchmarks like PCI DSS, CIS, .etc.

To enable audit functionality:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      enabled: true
```

Audit will be performed when the agent starts and then at an interval of 23 hours. The results from that sink would be published by the registered sinks.

---
## Policy Sets

Policy set is a custom resource that gives more control over which policies to be used in each scenario. There are cases in which certain policies are required to be observed but denying the requests of violating objects would be disruptive. Policy set allows definining additional filters for each scenario: `Audit` and `Admission` so it is possible to report violations on certain policies without the need of blocking the deployments if certain policies are not as critical as others.

Policy set should also be hosted on the policy library. The following definition defines which specific policies should be used using policy names:

```yaml
apiVersion: pac.weave.works/v2beta1
kind: PolicySet
metadata:
    name: admission-policy-set
spec:
    id: admission-policy-set
    name: admission-policy-set
    filters:
      ids:
        - weave.policies.containers-running-with-privilege-escalation
        - weave.policies.containers-read-only-root-filesystem
```

To make use of this policy set in the profile:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config: 
    admission:
      policySet: admission-policy-set # name of policy set to be used for admission
    audit: 
      policySet: audit-policy-set # name of policy set to be used for audit
```

---
## Policy Validation Sinks

When validating a resource a validation object is generated that contains information about the status of that validation and metadata about the resource and policy involved. These objects should be exported to be visible for users as a critical part of the audit flow, but can also be useful as logs for the admission scenario.

By default the agent only writes policy validation that are violating a certain policy when performing an audit, to write compliance results as well, the following needs to be specified in the profile:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      writeCompliance: true
```

The agent profile supports multiple methods for different scenarios either Admission or Audit to expose this data and multiple can be used at the same time:


<Tabs groupId="violations-sinks" default>
<TabItem value="text-file" label="Text File">

The results would be dumped into a text file in `logs` directory in the agent container as a json string. It is important to note that this file would not be persistent and would be deleted upon pod restart, so generally this approach is not recommended for production environment.

To enable writing to a text file in audit scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      sinks:
        fileSystemSink:
          fileName: "file.json"
```

To enable writing to a text file in admission scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      sinks:
        fileSystemSink:
          fileName: "file.json"
```

It is possible to make the file persistent, this assumes that there is a [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) already configured on the cluster.

```yaml
policy-agent:
  persistence:
    enabled: false # specifies whether to use persistence or not
    claimStorage: 1Gi # claim size
    storageClassName: standard # k8s StorageClass name
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="kubernetes-events" label="Kubernetes Events">
The results would be written as Kubernetes events. This means that they are accessible through the kubernetes API and can be consumed by custom exporters.

To enable writing Kubernetes events in audit scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      sinks:
        k8sEventsSink:
          enabled: true
```

To enable writing Kubernetes events in admission scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      sinks:
        k8sEventsSink:
          enabled: true
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="notification-controller" label="Notification Controller">
This requires the cluster to be managed using flux. It makes use of flux notification controller to send events to multiple sources, depending on the controller configuration. The agent writes the events to the controller and it proceeds to publish it to the configured listeners.

To enable writing to flux notification controller in audit scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      sinks:
        fluxNotificationSink:
          address: ""
```

To enable writing to flux notification controller in admission scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      sinks:
        fluxNotificationSink:
          address: ""
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="elasticsearch" label="Elasticsearch">
The results of validating entities against policies would be written in Elasticsearch index.

To enable writing to elasticsearh in audit scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      sinks:
        elasticSink:
          address: ""
          username: ""
          password: ""
          indexName: ""
          insertionMode: "upsert"
```

To enable writing to flux notification controller in admission scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      sinks:
        elasticSink:
          address: ""
          username: ""
          password: ""
          indexName: ""
          insertionMode: "insert"
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---
## Policy Validation

Policy validation object contains all the necessary information to give the user a clear idea on what caused it. It is the result of validating an entity against a policy.

```yaml
id: string # identifier for the violation
account_id: string # organization identifier
cluster_id: string # cluster identifier
policy: object # contains related policy data
entity: object # contains related resource data
status: string # Violation or Compliance
message: string # message that summarizes the policy validation
type: string # Admission or Audit
trigger: string # what triggered the validation, create request or initial audit,..
created_at: string # time that the validation occured in 
```

Commit message:

Add audit frequency and policy library source reference documentation

website/docs/policy/weave-policy-profile.mdx, after:

---
title: Weave policy profile
hide_title: true
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

import TierLabel from "../_components/TierLabel";

# Weave policy profile <TierLabel tiers="enterprise" />

# Weave Policy Profile

## Overview

Weave policy profile provides policies to automate the enforcement of best practice and conventions. It ensures the compliance of workloads through the use of a policy agent that provides an admission controller webhook that stops violating resources from deploying to a cluster and runs a daily audit that reports violating resources already deployed.

---
## Policy Sources

Policies are provided in the profile as Custom Resources. The agent reads from the policies deployed on the cluster and runs them during each admission request or when auditing a resource.

Policies are hosted in a policy library which is ususally a git repository. They are fetched in the profile through the use of `kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io.Kustomization`, that deploys the policies to the cluster.

By default all policies in the specified path would be deployed in order to specify which policies should be deployed in a library, a `kustomize.config.k8s.io.Kustomization` file should be defined in the repository.

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
resources: # specifies the path to each required policy 
  - policies/ControllerContainerAllowingPrivilegeEscalation/policy.yaml
  - policies/ControllerContainerRunningAsRoot/policy.yaml
  - policies/ControllerReadOnlyFileSystem/policy.yaml
```

The profile then needs to be configured with the necessary config to be able to reach the repository that is acting as a policy library.

```yaml
policySource:
  enabled: true
  url: URL of the repo where your policies exist
  tag: tag name on the policies repo
  path: Path to the policies dir - or a kustomization.yaml that selects some policies - in the repo
  secretRef (if the repo is private): Name of the K8s secret with private repo credentials (leave empty if the repo is public)
```

There is the option of referencing an existing policy library source instead of creating a new one.
```yaml
policySource:
  enabled: true
  sourceRef:
    kind: Kind of the existing source
    name: Name of the policy library source
    namespace: Namespace where the source exists
```
---
## Admission Controller Setup

To enable admission control:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      enabled: true
```

Enabling admission controller requires certificates for secure communication with the webhook client and the admission server. The best way to achieve this is by installing [cert manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/) and then configuring the profile as follows:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  useCertManager: true
```

There is the option of providing previously generated certificates although it is not recommended and it is up to the user to manage it:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  certificate: "---" # admission server certificate
  key: "---" # admission server private key
  caCertificate: "---" # CA bundle to validate the webhook server, used by the client
```

If the agent webhook could not be reached or the request failed to complete, the corresponding request would be refused. To change that behavior and accepts the reuqest in cases of failure, this needs to be set:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  failurePolicy: Ignore
```

---
## Audit
Audit functionality provide a full scan on the cluster(s) and report back policy violations. This usually is used for policy violations reporting, and Compliance posture analysis against known benchmarks like PCI DSS, CIS, .etc.

To enable audit functionality:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      enabled: true
      interval: 24 # configuring the frequent of audit operations running in hours (default is 24 hour)
```

Audit will be performed when the agent starts and then at an interval of your choice in hours (default is 24 hour). The results from that sink would be published by the registered sinks.

---
## Policy Sets

Policy set is a custom resource that gives more control over which policies to be used in each scenario. There are cases in which certain policies are required to be observed but denying the requests of violating objects would be disruptive. Policy set allows definining additional filters for each scenario: `Audit` and `Admission` so it is possible to report violations on certain policies without the need of blocking the deployments if certain policies are not as critical as others.

Policy set should also be hosted on the policy library. The following definition defines which specific policies should be used using policy names:

```yaml
apiVersion: pac.weave.works/v2beta1
kind: PolicySet
metadata:
    name: admission-policy-set
spec:
    id: admission-policy-set
    name: admission-policy-set
    filters:
      ids:
        - weave.policies.containers-running-with-privilege-escalation
        - weave.policies.containers-read-only-root-filesystem
```

To make use of this policy set in the profile:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config: 
    admission:
      policySet: admission-policy-set # name of policy set to be used for admission
    audit: 
      policySet: audit-policy-set # name of policy set to be used for audit
```

---
## Policy Validation Sinks

When validating a resource a validation object is generated that contains information about the status of that validation and metadata about the resource and policy involved. These objects should be exported to be visible for users as a critical part of the audit flow, but can also be useful as logs for the admission scenario.

By default the agent only writes policy validation that are violating a certain policy when performing an audit, to write compliance results as well, the following needs to be specified in the profile:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      writeCompliance: true
```

The agent profile supports multiple methods for different scenarios either Admission or Audit to expose this data and multiple can be used at the same time:


<Tabs groupId="violations-sinks" default>
<TabItem value="text-file" label="Text File">

The results would be dumped into a text file in `logs` directory in the agent container as a json string. It is important to note that this file would not be persistent and would be deleted upon pod restart, so generally this approach is not recommended for production environment.

To enable writing to a text file in audit scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      sinks:
        fileSystemSink:
          fileName: "file.json"
```

To enable writing to a text file in admission scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      sinks:
        fileSystemSink:
          fileName: "file.json"
```

It is possible to make the file persistent, this assumes that there is a [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) already configured on the cluster.

```yaml
policy-agent:
  persistence:
    enabled: false # specifies whether to use persistence or not
    claimStorage: 1Gi # claim size
    storageClassName: standard # k8s StorageClass name
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="kubernetes-events" label="Kubernetes Events">
The results would be written as Kubernetes events. This means that they are accessible through the kubernetes API and can be consumed by custom exporters.

To enable writing Kubernetes events in audit scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      sinks:
        k8sEventsSink:
          enabled: true
```

To enable writing Kubernetes events in admission scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      sinks:
        k8sEventsSink:
          enabled: true
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="notification-controller" label="Notification Controller">
This requires the cluster to be managed using flux. It makes use of flux notification controller to send events to multiple sources, depending on the controller configuration. The agent writes the events to the controller and it proceeds to publish it to the configured listeners.

To enable writing to flux notification controller in audit scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      sinks:
        fluxNotificationSink:
          address: ""
```

To enable writing to flux notification controller in admission scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      sinks:
        fluxNotificationSink:
          address: ""
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="elasticsearch" label="Elasticsearch">
The results of validating entities against policies would be written in Elasticsearch index.

To enable writing to elasticsearh in audit scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    audit:
      sinks:
        elasticSink:
          address: ""
          username: ""
          password: ""
          indexName: ""
          insertionMode: "upsert"
```

To enable writing to flux notification controller in admission scenario:

```yaml
policy-agent:
  config:
    admission:
      sinks:
        elasticSink:
          address: ""
          username: ""
          password: ""
          indexName: ""
          insertionMode: "insert"
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---
## Policy Validation

Policy validation object contains all the necessary information to give the user a clear idea on what caused it. It is the result of validating an entity against a policy.

```yaml
id: string # identifier for the violation
account_id: string # organization identifier
cluster_id: string # cluster identifier
policy: object # contains related policy data
entity: object # contains related resource data
status: string # Violation or Compliance
message: string # message that summarizes the policy validation
type: string # Admission or Audit
trigger: string # what triggered the validation, create request or initial audit,..
created_at: string # time that the validation occured in 
```
