doc/adr/0015-current-api-authentication-strategy.md, before:

# 0015. A description of the current API authentication strategy

## Status

Accepted

This supersedes [ADR-0005 Wego Core Auth Strategy](./0005-wego-core-auth-strategy.md). The portions to do with GitHub and GitLab authentication are deprecated.

## Problem

We have no documentation around how authentication works in Weave Gitops. This will aim to capture the current state of
the system.

The 'decision' section has been skipped as the decisions have been made and reverse-engineering the rationale for them is unlikely to work. The 'context' section covers implementation details and the 'consequences' aims to enumerate major risks with the system as well as how to work with it safely.

This supersedes the sections of [ADR-0005 Wego Core Auth Strategy](./0005-wego-core-auth-strategy.md) not to do with authentication to GitHub/GitLab.

## Context

**Note:** throughout this I refer to "auth methods" and "methods" which, for the sake of this document, mean the general process of authenticating who a request is coming from NOT the specific object method which may be called.

Since ADR-0005 was accepted there have been several changes to Weave GitOps. The largest of these has been the removal of support for making changes to git repositories and a greater use of `impersonation` for authentication to the Kubernetes API.

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  start([Request]) --> iterate["Next authentication method (oidc, user etc.)"]

  auth -.-> extAuth["[Optional] external authentication (e.g. OIDC)"]
  extAuth -.-> auth

  subgraph WithAPIAuthentication
    iterate --> auth[Authenticate request]

    auth --> isAuth{Is authenticated?}

    isAuth --> |No| isLast{More auth methods?}
    isAuth --> |Yes| set[Set Principal in context]

  end
  isAuth --> |Error| unauthorised(["401: unauthorised"])
  isLast --> |No| unauthorised
  isLast --> |Yes| auth

  set --> handlers[Handle the request]
  handlers -.->  k8sCall[Call kubernetes API]
  k8sCall --> principalType{Principal has token?}

  subgraph ClientConfigWithUser
    principalType --> |No| impersonate[Call Kubernetes API with impersonation]
    principalType --> |Yes| passthrough[Call Kubernetes API with principal's token]

  end

  impersonate --> response([Response])
  passthrough --> response([Response])
```

### Authentication to the server

Currently there are 3 supported methods:

* OIDC (via header and cookie)
* Cluster user account
* Token passthrough

methods must implement the `PrincipalGetter` interface which returns a `UserPrincipal`:
```go
type PrincipalGetter interface {
  Principal(r *http.Request) (*UserPrincipal, error)
}

type UserPrincipal struct {
  ID     string   `json:"id"`
  Groups []string `json:"groups"`
  Token  string   `json:"-"`
}
```

The `PrincipalGetter` is used by the `WithAPIAuthentication` middleware that authenticates requests to the API. Auth methods are enabled via the `--auth-methods` flag this flag also defines the order in which methods are used to authenticate a request, by default then enabled methods are cluster user then OIDC. The middleware is used on all calls to the Gitops API that don't match one of the configured `PublicRoutes`. When a request is received it is passed to each enabled method's `Principal` function, the first call to return a non-nil response without erroring succeeds and no further methods are tested. If no methods succeed, or if a method returns an error, the request is rejected with a `401 (unauthorised)` status.

Configuration is primarily via the CLI but the OIDC method can also read configuration from a secret (by default `oidc-auth`) which over-rides CLI configuration. The `OIDC.TokenDuration` attribute is used to set all cookie expiry times (not just those related to OIDC).

It is important to note that the authentication method is also 'used' by the `/oauth2/userinfo` endpoint. This endpoint searches cookies and headers to find principal information and returns it in an JSON object. This does not use the `PrincipalGetter` interface and discovers principal data independently.

### Authentication from the server to Kubernetes

The Gitops server itself only needs a very limited set of permissions (`impersonate`, `get,list` on the secrets used to configure authentication and `get,list` on namespaces). All interaction with the Kubernetes API should use the `impersonate` method to request data using the user's principal rather than Gitops'.

The principal returned by `WithAPIAuthentication` is added to the request context to authenticate with the Kubernetes API. For OIDC and user-account methods the principal is extracted from the header or cookie token which is expected to have the following attributes:

```javascript
{
  "email": "someone@example.invalid",  // required
  "groups": ["team-a", "team-b"],      // optional
}
```

The `email` and `groups` terms are then used to configure [impersonation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#user-impersonation) to the Kubernetes API which allows the gitops' service account to act on the user's behalf.

When token-passthrough is used the user-supplied token is treated as a bearer token and no-impersonation is carried out. It is assumed that the Kubernetes API will know how to extract any relevant Principal information from it directly.

Communication to the Kubernetes API should be done via the client returned by `GetImpersonatedClient` which will configure impersonation. There are a couple of places in `pkg/server/auth/` and in `cmd/gitops-server/cmd/cmd.go` where a raw (i.e. non-impersonated) client are used, this is done to read secrets during initialisation and to call the `TokenReview` APIs that authenticate with pass-through tokens.

## Consequences

This is not an exhaustive list of consequences of the above but aims to capture important points.

The `PrincipalGetter` interface is very simple but is assumed to carry out authentication in addition to returning a `UserPrincipal`. The various implementations of `Principal` must be treated very carefully as they are the outermost layer of security against unauthenticated access to both Gitops and the Kubernetes API.

If an empty `UserPrincipal` struct is passed to the `GetImpersonatedClient` then the client will fallback to using the Gitops service account permissions. When returning a `UserPrincipal` authentication methods should make sure at least one of `ID` or `Token` is set.

There are no guarantees that the `Principal` returned by the `oauth2/userinfo` endpoint is actually the one that will be used to authenticate with the Kubernetes API as this endpoint uses its only function to retrieve principal information.

It is important to remember that the `impersonation` permission is very powerful and represents an easy route for privilege escalation (for example most Kubernetes clusters will have a `system:masters` group by default, that has full admin permissions). Care should be taken in Kubernetes verbs are used to limit the risk of poor configuration.

Similarly care should be taken in expanding the set of permissions granted to the service account so that the risk of un-authenticated use is minimised.

Commit message:

Update ADR-0015 with auth method order
https://github.com/weaveworks/weave-gitops/pull/2611 reverts to using a
fixed auth method order. This updates the ADR to reflect that

doc/adr/0015-current-api-authentication-strategy.md, after:

# 0015. A description of the current API authentication strategy

## Status

Accepted

This supersedes [ADR-0005 Wego Core Auth Strategy](./0005-wego-core-auth-strategy.md). The portions to do with GitHub and GitLab authentication are deprecated.

## Problem

We have no documentation around how authentication works in Weave Gitops. This will aim to capture the current state of
the system.

The 'decision' section has been skipped as the decisions have been made and reverse-engineering the rationale for them is unlikely to work. The 'context' section covers implementation details and the 'consequences' aims to enumerate major risks with the system as well as how to work with it safely.

This supersedes the sections of [ADR-0005 Wego Core Auth Strategy](./0005-wego-core-auth-strategy.md) not to do with authentication to GitHub/GitLab.

## Context

**Note:** throughout this I refer to "auth methods" and "methods" which, for the sake of this document, mean the general process of authenticating who a request is coming from NOT the specific object method which may be called.

Since ADR-0005 was accepted there have been several changes to Weave GitOps. The largest of these has been the removal of support for making changes to git repositories and a greater use of `impersonation` for authentication to the Kubernetes API.

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  start([Request]) --> iterate["Next authentication method (oidc, user etc.)"]

  auth -.-> extAuth["[Optional] external authentication (e.g. OIDC)"]
  extAuth -.-> auth

  subgraph WithAPIAuthentication
    iterate --> auth[Authenticate request]

    auth --> isAuth{Is authenticated?}

    isAuth --> |No| isLast{More auth methods?}
    isAuth --> |Yes| set[Set Principal in context]

  end
  isAuth --> |Error| unauthorised(["401: unauthorised"])
  isLast --> |No| unauthorised
  isLast --> |Yes| auth

  set --> handlers[Handle the request]
  handlers -.->  k8sCall[Call kubernetes API]
  k8sCall --> principalType{Principal has token?}

  subgraph ClientConfigWithUser
    principalType --> |No| impersonate[Call Kubernetes API with impersonation]
    principalType --> |Yes| passthrough[Call Kubernetes API with principal's token]

  end

  impersonate --> response([Response])
  passthrough --> response([Response])
```

### Authentication to the server

Currently there are 3 supported methods:

* OIDC (via header and cookie)
* Cluster user account
* Token passthrough

methods must implement the `PrincipalGetter` interface which returns a `UserPrincipal`:
```go
type PrincipalGetter interface {
  Principal(r *http.Request) (*UserPrincipal, error)
}

type UserPrincipal struct {
  ID     string   `json:"id"`
  Groups []string `json:"groups"`
  Token  string   `json:"-"`
}
```

The `PrincipalGetter` is used by the `WithAPIAuthentication` middleware that authenticates requests to the API. Auth methods are enabled via the `--auth-methods` flag. The methods are tested in the following order: cluster-user, token-passthrough then OIDC. The ordering is important as cluster-user and OIDC use the same name for their cookie and OIDC will fail if given the cluster-user cookie. The middleware is used on all calls to the Gitops API that don't match one of the configured `PublicRoutes`. When a request is received it is passed to each enabled method's `Principal` function, the first call to return a non-nil response without erroring succeeds and no further methods are tested. If no methods succeed, or if a method returns an error, the request is rejected with a `401 (unauthorised)` status.

Configuration is primarily via the CLI but the OIDC method can also read configuration from a secret (by default `oidc-auth`) which over-rides CLI configuration. The `OIDC.TokenDuration` attribute is used to set all cookie expiry times (not just those related to OIDC).

It is important to note that the authentication method is also 'used' by the `/oauth2/userinfo` endpoint. This endpoint searches cookies and headers to find principal information and returns it in an JSON object. This does not use the `PrincipalGetter` interface and discovers principal data independently.

### Authentication from the server to Kubernetes

The Gitops server itself only needs a very limited set of permissions (`impersonate`, `get,list` on the secrets used to configure authentication and `get,list` on namespaces). All interaction with the Kubernetes API should use the `impersonate` method to request data using the user's principal rather than Gitops'.

The principal returned by `WithAPIAuthentication` is added to the request context to authenticate with the Kubernetes API. For OIDC and user-account methods the principal is extracted from the header or cookie token which is expected to have the following attributes:

```javascript
{
  "email": "someone@example.invalid",  // required
  "groups": ["team-a", "team-b"],      // optional
}
```

The `email` and `groups` terms are then used to configure [impersonation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#user-impersonation) to the Kubernetes API which allows the gitops' service account to act on the user's behalf.

When token-passthrough is used the user-supplied token is treated as a bearer token and no-impersonation is carried out. It is assumed that the Kubernetes API will know how to extract any relevant Principal information from it directly.

Communication to the Kubernetes API should be done via the client returned by `GetImpersonatedClient` which will configure impersonation. There are a couple of places in `pkg/server/auth/` and in `cmd/gitops-server/cmd/cmd.go` where a raw (i.e. non-impersonated) client are used, this is done to read secrets during initialisation and to call the `TokenReview` APIs that authenticate with pass-through tokens.

## Consequences

This is not an exhaustive list of consequences of the above but aims to capture important points.

The `PrincipalGetter` interface is very simple but is assumed to carry out authentication in addition to returning a `UserPrincipal`. The various implementations of `Principal` must be treated very carefully as they are the outermost layer of security against unauthenticated access to both Gitops and the Kubernetes API.

The order that authentication methods should be treated carefully, as should the name of cookies & headers being used to avoid problems with shadowing another methods' expected values.

If an empty `UserPrincipal` struct is passed to the `GetImpersonatedClient` then the client will fallback to using the Gitops service account permissions. When returning a `UserPrincipal` authentication methods should make sure at least one of `ID` or `Token` is set.

There are no guarantees that the `Principal` returned by the `oauth2/userinfo` endpoint is actually the one that will be used to authenticate with the Kubernetes API as this endpoint uses its only function to retrieve principal information.

It is important to remember that the `impersonation` permission is very powerful and represents an easy route for privilege escalation (for example most Kubernetes clusters will have a `system:masters` group by default, that has full admin permissions). Care should be taken in Kubernetes verbs are used to limit the risk of poor configuration.

Similarly care should be taken in expanding the set of permissions granted to the service account so that the risk of un-authenticated use is minimised.
