website/src/pages/security/cve/enterprise/CVE-2022-38790.md, before:


# Malicious links can be crafted by users and shown in the UI

## Impact
Unpatched versions of Weave GitOps Enterprise are vulnerable to a cross-site scripting (XSS) bug allowing a malicious user to inject a javascript: link in the UI. When clicked by a victim user, the script will execute with the victim's permission.

The exposure appears in Weave GitOps Enterprise UI via a GitopsCluster dashboard link. An annotation can be added to a GitopsCluster custom resource.

```yaml
apiVersion: gitops.weave.works/v1alpha1
kind: GitopsCluster
metadata:
  name: demo-02
  namespace: default
  annotations:
    metadata.weave.works/dashboard.hellothere: "javascript:alert('hello there ' + window.localStorage.getItem('name'));"
```

The attacker does not need access to the Weave GitOps UI to craft an attack, access to a Git repository that contains resources that are displayed is all that is needed.

## Patches

[v0.9.0-rc.5](https://github.com/weaveworks/weave-gitops-enterprise/releases/tag/v0.9.0-rc.5)

## Workarounds

Given that the exposure comes from modifications done in `GitopsCluster` objects, the mitigation comes around establishing the controls to avoid that an attacker could modify them.

1.  Via Git, by ensuring that no modifications to `GitopsCluster` are done without review or control that avoids it.
2. Via Kubernetes API, by ensuring that access to `GitopsCluster` resources is properly protected [via RBAC](https://docs.gitops.weave.works/docs/next/configuration/recommended-rbac-configuration/).

## References

- https://docs.gitops.weave.works/docs/next/cluster-management/getting-started/#profiles-and-clusters
- [CVE-2021-38790](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-38790)

## For more information

If you have any questions or comments about this advisory:
* Email us at [security@weave.works](mailto:security@weave.works)

Commit message:

adding kubernetes api as surface of attack

website/src/pages/security/cve/enterprise/CVE-2022-38790.md, after:


# Malicious links can be crafted by users and shown in the UI

## Impact
Unpatched versions of Weave GitOps Enterprise are vulnerable to a cross-site scripting (XSS) bug allowing a malicious user to inject a javascript: link in the UI. When clicked by a victim user, the script will execute with the victim's permission.

The exposure appears in Weave GitOps Enterprise UI via a GitopsCluster dashboard link. An annotation can be added to a GitopsCluster custom resource.

```yaml
apiVersion: gitops.weave.works/v1alpha1
kind: GitopsCluster
metadata:
  name: demo-02
  namespace: default
  annotations:
    metadata.weave.works/dashboard.hellothere: "javascript:alert('hello there ' + window.localStorage.getItem('name'));"
```

The attacker does not need access to the Weave GitOps UI to craft an attack. It could be crafted by modifying the resources via 
Git repository or Kubernetes API.  

## Patches

[v0.9.0-rc.5](https://github.com/weaveworks/weave-gitops-enterprise/releases/tag/v0.9.0-rc.5)

## Workarounds

Given that the exposure comes from modifications done in `GitopsCluster` objects, the mitigation comes around establishing the controls to avoid that an attacker could modify them.

1.  Via Git, by ensuring that no modifications to `GitopsCluster` are done without review or control that avoids it.
2. Via Kubernetes API, by ensuring that access to `GitopsCluster` resources is properly protected [via RBAC](https://docs.gitops.weave.works/docs/next/configuration/recommended-rbac-configuration/).

## References

- https://docs.gitops.weave.works/docs/next/cluster-management/getting-started/#profiles-and-clusters
- [CVE-2021-38790](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-38790)

## For more information

If you have any questions or comments about this advisory:
* Email us at [security@weave.works](mailto:security@weave.works)
