website/docs/cluster-management/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started
sidebar_position: 1
hide_title: true
---

import TierLabel from "../_components/TierLabel";
import CodeBlock from "@theme/CodeBlock";
import BrowserOnly from "@docusaurus/BrowserOnly";

# Getting started <TierLabel tiers="enterprise" />

## Creating your first CAPD Cluster

If you've followed the [Upgrade steps](installation.mdx#weave-gitops-enterprise) in the [Installation guide](installation.mdx) you should have:

1. Weave GitOps Enterprise installed
2. A CAPI provider installed (With support for `ClusterResourceSet`s enabled).

Next up we'll add a template and use it to create a cluster.

### Directory structure

Let's setup a directory structure to manage our clusters

```bash
mkdir -p clusters/bases \
  clusters/management/capi/templates \
  clusters/management/capi/bootstrap \
  clusters/management/capi/profiles
```

Now we should have:

```bash
.
└── clusters
    ├── bases
    └── management
        └── capi
            ├── bootstrap
            ├── profiles
            └── templates
```

This assumes that we've configured flux to reconcile everything in `clusters/management` into our management cluster.

To keep things organized we've created some subpaths for the different resources:

- `bases` for any common resources between clusters like RBAC and policy.
- `templates` for `CAPITemplates`
- `bootstrap` for `ClusterBootstrapConfig`, `ClusterResourceSet` and the `ConfigMap` they reference
- `profiles` for the `HelmRepository` of the profiles for the newly created clusters

Lets grab some sample resources to create our first cluster!

### Add common RBAC to the repo

When a cluster is provisioned, by default it will reconcile all the manifests in `./clusters/<cluster-namespace>/<cluster-name>` and `./clusters/bases`.

To display Applications and Sources in the UI we need to give the logged in user permissions to inspect the new cluster.

Adding common rbac rules to `./clusters/bases/rbac` is an easy way to configure this!

import WegoAdmin from "!!raw-loader!./assets/rbac/wego-admin.yaml";

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o clusters/bases/rbac/wego-admin.yaml {window.location.protocol}//
      {window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/rbac/wego-admin.yaml").default}
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/bases/rbac/wego-admin.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {WegoAdmin}
</CodeBlock>

### Add a template

See [CAPI Templates](templates.mdx) page for more details on this topic. Once we load a template we can use it in the UI to create clusters!

import CapdTemplate from "!!raw-loader!./assets/templates/capd-template.yaml";

Download the template below to your config repository path, then commit and push to your git origin.

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o clusters/management/capi/templates/capd-template.yaml{" "}
      {window.location.protocol}//{window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/templates/capd-template.yaml").default}
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/management/capi/templates/capd-template.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {CapdTemplate}
</CodeBlock>

## Automatically install a CNI with `ClusterResourceSet`s

We can use `ClusterResourceSet`s to automatically install CNI's on a new cluster, here we use calico as an example.

### Add a CRS to install a CNI

Create a calico configmap and a CRS as follows:

import CalicoCRS from "!!raw-loader!./assets/bootstrap/calico-crs.yaml";

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o clusters/management/capi/bootstrap/calico-crs.yaml{" "}
      {window.location.protocol}//{window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/bootstrap/calico-crs.yaml").default}
      {"\n"}
      curl -o clusters/management/capi/bootstrap/calico-crs-configmap.yaml {
        window.location.protocol
      }//{window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/bootstrap/calico-crs-configmap.yaml").default}
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/management/capi/boostrap/calico-crs.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {CalicoCRS}
</CodeBlock>

The full [`calico-crs-configmap.yaml`](./assets/bootstrap/calico-crs-configmap.yaml) is a bit large to display inline here but make sure to download it to `clusters/management/capi/bootstrap/calico-crs-configmap.yaml` too, manually or with the above `curl` command.

## Profiles and clusters

WGE can automatically install profiles onto new clusters

#### Add a helmrepo

import ProfileRepo from "!!raw-loader!./assets/profiles/profile-repo.yaml";

A profile is an enhanced helm chart. When publishing profiles to helm repositories make sure to include the `weave.works/profile` in `Chart.yaml`. These annotated profiles will appear in WGE

```
annotations:
  weave.works/profile: nginx-profile
```

Download the profile repository below to your config repository path then commit and push. Make sure to update the url to point to a Helm repository containing your profiles.

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o clusters/management/capi/profiles/profile-repo.yaml{" "}
      {window.location.protocol}
      //{window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/profiles/profile-repo.yaml").default}
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/management/capi/profiles/profile-repo.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {ProfileRepo}
</CodeBlock>

#### Add a cluster bootstrap config

Create a cluster bootstrap config as follows:

```bash
 kubectl create secret generic my-pat --from-literal GITHUB_TOKEN=$GITHUB_TOKEN
```

import CapiGitopsCDC from "!!raw-loader!./assets/bootstrap/capi-gitops-cluster-bootstrap-config.yaml";

Download the config with

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o
      clusters/management/capi/bootstrap/capi-gitops-cluster-bootstrap-config.yaml{" "}
      {window.location.protocol}
      //{window.location.host}
      {
        require("./assets/bootstrap/capi-gitops-cluster-bootstrap-config.yaml")
          .default
      }
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

Then update the `GITOPS_REPO` variable to point to your cluster

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/management/capi/boostrap/capi-gitops-cluster-bootstrap-config.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {CapiGitopsCDC}
</CodeBlock>

#### Add Monitoring Dashboards to your cluster

In order to add dashboards to your cluster, you'll need to use metadata annotations following the below pattern.

```
apiVersion: gitops.weave.works/v1alpha1
kind: GitopsCluster
metadata:
  annotations:
    metadata.weave.works/dashboard.grafana: https://grafana.com/
    metadata.weave.works/dashboard.prometheus: https://prometheus.io/
```

## Test

You should now be able to create a new cluster from your template and install profiles onto it with a single Pull Request via the WGE UI!

Commit message:

Add cluster kind annotations in getting started dos
Signed-off-by: Rana Tarek Hassan <rana.hassan@weave.works>

website/docs/cluster-management/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started
sidebar_position: 1
hide_title: true
---

import TierLabel from "../_components/TierLabel";
import CodeBlock from "@theme/CodeBlock";
import BrowserOnly from "@docusaurus/BrowserOnly";

# Getting started <TierLabel tiers="enterprise" />

## Creating your first CAPD Cluster

If you've followed the [Upgrade steps](installation.mdx#weave-gitops-enterprise) in the [Installation guide](installation.mdx) you should have:

1. Weave GitOps Enterprise installed
2. A CAPI provider installed (With support for `ClusterResourceSet`s enabled).

Next up we'll add a template and use it to create a cluster.

### Directory structure

Let's setup a directory structure to manage our clusters

```bash
mkdir -p clusters/bases \
  clusters/management/capi/templates \
  clusters/management/capi/bootstrap \
  clusters/management/capi/profiles
```

Now we should have:

```bash
.
└── clusters
    ├── bases
    └── management
        └── capi
            ├── bootstrap
            ├── profiles
            └── templates
```

This assumes that we've configured flux to reconcile everything in `clusters/management` into our management cluster.

To keep things organized we've created some subpaths for the different resources:

- `bases` for any common resources between clusters like RBAC and policy.
- `templates` for `CAPITemplates`
- `bootstrap` for `ClusterBootstrapConfig`, `ClusterResourceSet` and the `ConfigMap` they reference
- `profiles` for the `HelmRepository` of the profiles for the newly created clusters

Lets grab some sample resources to create our first cluster!

### Add common RBAC to the repo

When a cluster is provisioned, by default it will reconcile all the manifests in `./clusters/<cluster-namespace>/<cluster-name>` and `./clusters/bases`.

To display Applications and Sources in the UI we need to give the logged in user permissions to inspect the new cluster.

Adding common rbac rules to `./clusters/bases/rbac` is an easy way to configure this!

import WegoAdmin from "!!raw-loader!./assets/rbac/wego-admin.yaml";

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o clusters/bases/rbac/wego-admin.yaml {window.location.protocol}//
      {window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/rbac/wego-admin.yaml").default}
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/bases/rbac/wego-admin.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {WegoAdmin}
</CodeBlock>

### Add a template

See [CAPI Templates](templates.mdx) page for more details on this topic. Once we load a template we can use it in the UI to create clusters!

import CapdTemplate from "!!raw-loader!./assets/templates/capd-template.yaml";

Download the template below to your config repository path, then commit and push to your git origin.

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o clusters/management/capi/templates/capd-template.yaml{" "}
      {window.location.protocol}//{window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/templates/capd-template.yaml").default}
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/management/capi/templates/capd-template.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {CapdTemplate}
</CodeBlock>

## Automatically install a CNI with `ClusterResourceSet`s

We can use `ClusterResourceSet`s to automatically install CNI's on a new cluster, here we use calico as an example.

### Add a CRS to install a CNI

Create a calico configmap and a CRS as follows:

import CalicoCRS from "!!raw-loader!./assets/bootstrap/calico-crs.yaml";

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o clusters/management/capi/bootstrap/calico-crs.yaml{" "}
      {window.location.protocol}//{window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/bootstrap/calico-crs.yaml").default}
      {"\n"}
      curl -o clusters/management/capi/bootstrap/calico-crs-configmap.yaml {
        window.location.protocol
      }//{window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/bootstrap/calico-crs-configmap.yaml").default}
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/management/capi/boostrap/calico-crs.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {CalicoCRS}
</CodeBlock>

The full [`calico-crs-configmap.yaml`](./assets/bootstrap/calico-crs-configmap.yaml) is a bit large to display inline here but make sure to download it to `clusters/management/capi/bootstrap/calico-crs-configmap.yaml` too, manually or with the above `curl` command.

## Profiles and clusters

WGE can automatically install profiles onto new clusters

#### Add a helmrepo

import ProfileRepo from "!!raw-loader!./assets/profiles/profile-repo.yaml";

A profile is an enhanced helm chart. When publishing profiles to helm repositories make sure to include the `weave.works/profile` in `Chart.yaml`. These annotated profiles will appear in WGE

```
annotations:
  weave.works/profile: nginx-profile
```

Download the profile repository below to your config repository path then commit and push. Make sure to update the url to point to a Helm repository containing your profiles.

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o clusters/management/capi/profiles/profile-repo.yaml{" "}
      {window.location.protocol}
      //{window.location.host}
      {require("./assets/profiles/profile-repo.yaml").default}
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/management/capi/profiles/profile-repo.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {ProfileRepo}
</CodeBlock>

#### Add a cluster bootstrap config

Create a cluster bootstrap config as follows:

```bash
 kubectl create secret generic my-pat --from-literal GITHUB_TOKEN=$GITHUB_TOKEN
```

import CapiGitopsCDC from "!!raw-loader!./assets/bootstrap/capi-gitops-cluster-bootstrap-config.yaml";

Download the config with

<BrowserOnly>
  {() => (
    <CodeBlock className="language-bash">
      curl -o
      clusters/management/capi/bootstrap/capi-gitops-cluster-bootstrap-config.yaml{" "}
      {window.location.protocol}
      //{window.location.host}
      {
        require("./assets/bootstrap/capi-gitops-cluster-bootstrap-config.yaml")
          .default
      }
    </CodeBlock>
  )}
</BrowserOnly>

Then update the `GITOPS_REPO` variable to point to your cluster

<CodeBlock
  title="clusters/management/capi/boostrap/capi-gitops-cluster-bootstrap-config.yaml"
  className="language-yaml"
>
  {CapiGitopsCDC}
</CodeBlock>

#### Add Monitoring Dashboards to your cluster

In order to add dashboards to your cluster, you'll need to use metadata annotations following the below pattern.

```
apiVersion: gitops.weave.works/v1alpha1
kind: GitopsCluster
metadata:
  annotations:
    metadata.weave.works/dashboard.grafana: https://grafana.com/
    metadata.weave.works/dashboard.prometheus: https://prometheus.io/
```

#### Specifying CAPI cluster kinds

To be able to explicitly specify the type of cluster, you need to use metadata annotations using `weave.works/cluster-kind` for the annotation key as the below pattern:

```
apiVersion: gitops.weave.works/v1alpha1
kind: GitopsCluster
metadata:
  annotations:
      weave.works/cluster-kind: <CLUSTER_KIND>
```
where the **CLUSTER_KIND** can be one of the following supported ones:
  - DockerCluster
  - AWSCluster
  - AWSManagedCluster
  - AzureCluster
  - AzureManagedCluster
  - GCPCluster

## Test

You should now be able to create a new cluster from your template and install profiles onto it with a single Pull Request via the WGE UI!
