test/acceptance/README.md, before:

# Gitops User Acceptance Tests

This suite contains the user acceptance tests for Weave GitOps. To run these tests you can either use gingko runner or standard go test command .

By default test harness assumes that GITOPS binary is available on `$PATH` but this can be overriden by exporting the following variable


```
export WEGO_BIN_PATH=<path/to/gitops-binary>
```

Additional env vars used to run tests locally are:
```
export GITHUB_ORG=<github-org>
export GITHUB_TOKEN=<api-token>
export GITHUB_KEY=<ssh-key>
export GITLAB_KEY=<ssh-key>
export GITLAB_ORG=<gitlab-org/group>
export GITLAB_TOKEN=<api-token>
export GITLAB_SUBGROUP=<subgroup belonging to GITLAB_ORG>
export GITLAB_PUBLIC_GROUP=<gitlab-public-group>
```
Please make sure that `GITHUB_TOKEN` has repo create and delete permissions on `GITHUB_ORG`

To use an existing cluster with active kubectl context, export the following variable before running the tests.

```
export CLUSTER_PROVIDER=kubectl
```

To run github tests on gitlab repos, export the following variable before running the tests. Please note that the tests will run on github repos by default if this variable is not set. Additionally, tests tagged @gitlabTests will always run on gitlab repos.

```
export GIT_PROVIDER=gitlab
```

# Smoke Tests

To run the **smoke tests** from the suite, run the following the command from the repo root directory.

```
ginkgo --focus=SmokeTest --randomizeSuites  -v ./test/acceptance/test/...
```
# Acceptance Tests
To run the full **acceptance suite**, run the command


```
ginkgo --randomizeSuites -v ./test/acceptance/test/...
```

# How to add new test

Smoke test can be added to `smoke_tests.go` or create a new go file with smoke as build tag.

For non smoke tests, feel free to create appropriately named go file.

This suite follows the **BDD** gherkin style specs, when adding a new test, make every effort to adhere to `Given-When-Then` semantics.

Commit message:

Disable checkpoint for all CI jobs (#1289)
* disable checkpoint for tests

* update readme

test/acceptance/README.md, after:

# Gitops User Acceptance Tests

This suite contains the user acceptance tests for Weave GitOps. To run these tests you can either use gingko runner or standard go test command .

By default test harness assumes that GITOPS binary is available on `$PATH` but this can be overriden by exporting the following variable


```
export WEGO_BIN_PATH=<path/to/gitops-binary>
```

Additional env vars used to run tests locally are:
```
export GITHUB_ORG=<github-org>
export GITHUB_TOKEN=<api-token>
export GITHUB_KEY=<ssh-key>
export GITLAB_KEY=<ssh-key>
export GITLAB_ORG=<gitlab-org/group>
export GITLAB_TOKEN=<api-token>
export GITLAB_SUBGROUP=<subgroup belonging to GITLAB_ORG>
export GITLAB_PUBLIC_GROUP=<gitlab-public-group>
```
Please make sure that `GITHUB_TOKEN` has repo create and delete permissions on `GITHUB_ORG`

To use an existing cluster with active kubectl context, export the following variable before running the tests.

```
export CLUSTER_PROVIDER=kubectl
```

To run github tests on gitlab repos, export the following variable before running the tests. Please note that the tests will run on github repos by default if this variable is not set. Additionally, tests tagged @gitlabTests will always run on gitlab repos.

```
export GIT_PROVIDER=gitlab
```

To add tests that require the creation of **multiple clusters**, please add a `@skipOnNightly` tag to the test in order to prevent Nightly Test failures. Our Nightly Tests run on standing clusters (EKS, GKE), and this test setup does not support creating multiple clusters on the fly. 

# Smoke Tests

To run the **smoke tests** from the suite, run the following the command from the repo root directory.

```
ginkgo --focus=SmokeTest --randomizeSuites  -v ./test/acceptance/test/...
```
# Acceptance Tests
To run the full **acceptance suite**, run the command


```
ginkgo --randomizeSuites -v ./test/acceptance/test/...
```

# How to add new test

Smoke test can be added to `smoke_tests.go` or create a new go file with smoke as build tag.

For non smoke tests, feel free to create appropriately named go file.

This suite follows the **BDD** gherkin style specs, when adding a new test, make every effort to adhere to `Given-When-Then` semantics.
