website/versioned_docs/version-0.9.5/configuration/user-permissions.mdx, before:

---
title: User permissions
sidebar_position: 3
---

This is an explanation of the [kubernetes permissions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)
needed by users of the Weave GitOps application. As covered in
[service account permissions](service-account-permissions.mdx)
the primary way that the application interacts with the Kube API is via [impersonation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#user-impersonation).
This means that the permissions granted to the users and groups that Weave GitOps
can impersonate determine the scope of actions that it can take within your cluster.

A minimal set of permissions are generated for the static cluster-user as part
of the [helm chart](https://github.com/weaveworks/weave-gitops/tree/main/charts/gitops-server/templates/admin-user-roles.yaml).

By default both a ClusterRole and Role are generated for the static cluster-user.
Both have the same permissions with former being optional and the latter being
bound to the `flux-system` namespace (where Flux stores its resources by default).
The default set of rules fall into three groups, discussed below, they are:
```yaml
rules:
# Flux Resources
- apiGroups: ["kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
  resources: [ "kustomizations" ]
  verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
- apiGroups: ["helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
  resources: [ "helmreleases" ]
  verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
- apiGroups: ["source.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
  resources: [ "buckets", "helmcharts", "gitrepositories", "helmrepositories", "ocirepositories" ]
  verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
- apiGroups: ["infra.contrib.fluxcd.io"]
  resources: ["terraforms"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
# Resources managed via Flux
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["configmaps", "secrets", "pods", "services", "namespaces", "persistentvolumes", "persistentvolumeclaims"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["apps"]
  resources: [ "deployments", "replicasets", "statefulsets"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["batch"]
  resources: [ "jobs", "cronjobs"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["autoscaling"]
  resources: ["horizontalpodautoscalers"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
  resources: ["roles", "clusterroles", "rolebindings", "clusterrolebindings"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["networking.k8s.io"]
  resources: ["ingresses"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
# Feedback
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["events"]
  verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
```


### Flux Resources

The resources that Flux works with directly, including the one from TF-controller.

| Api Group                   | Resources                                                               | Permissions      |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io | kustomizations                                                          | get, list, patch |
| helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io      | helmreleases                                                            | get, list, patch |
| source.toolkit.fluxcd.io    | buckets, helmcharts, gitrepositories, helmrepositories, ocirepositories | get, list, patch |
| infra.contrib.fluxcd.io     | terraforms                                                              | get, list, patch |

In order for Weave GitOps to be able to accurately display the state of Flux it
needs to be able to query the [CRDs](https://fluxcd.io/docs/components/) that Flux uses. This is done using the
`get` and `list` permissions

The `patch` permissions are used to enable the 'sync' functionality which forces
reconciliation of a resource. This is done Weave GitOps modifying the annotations
of the resource in the same way `flux reconcile` does on the CLI.

### Resources managed via Flux

| Api Group                 | Resources                                                                      | Permissions |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| ""                        | configmaps, secrets, pods, services, persistentvolumes, persistentvolumeclaims | get, list   |
| apps                      | deployments, replicasets, statefulsets                                         | get, list   |
| batch                     | jobs, cronjobs                                                                 | get, list   |
| autoscaling               | horizontalpodautoscalers                                                       | get, list   |
| rbac.authorization.k8s.io | roles, clusterroles, rolebindings, clusterrolebindings                         | get, list   |
| networking.k8s.io         | ingresses                                                                      | get, list   |

Weave GitOps reads basic resources so that it can monitor the effect that Flux has
on what's running.

Reading `secrets` enables Weave GitOps to monitor the state of Helm releases
as that's where it stores the [state by default](https://helm.sh/docs/faq/changes_since_helm2/#secrets-as-the-default-storage-driver).
For clarity this these are the Helm release objects _not_ the Flux HelmRelease
resource (which are dealt with by the earlier section).

### Feedback from Flux

The primary method by which Flux communicates the status of itself is by events,
these will show when reconciliations start and stop, whether they're successful
and information as to why they're not.

Commit message:

Add notification permissions to manual, mention suspend/resume

website/versioned_docs/version-0.9.5/configuration/user-permissions.mdx, after:

---
title: User permissions
sidebar_position: 3
---

This is an explanation of the [kubernetes permissions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)
needed by users of the Weave GitOps application. As covered in
[service account permissions](service-account-permissions.mdx)
the primary way that the application interacts with the Kube API is via [impersonation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#user-impersonation).
This means that the permissions granted to the users and groups that Weave GitOps
can impersonate determine the scope of actions that it can take within your cluster.

A minimal set of permissions are generated for the static cluster-user as part
of the [helm chart](https://github.com/weaveworks/weave-gitops/tree/main/charts/gitops-server/templates/admin-user-roles.yaml).

By default both a ClusterRole and Role are generated for the static cluster-user.
Both have the same permissions with former being optional and the latter being
bound to the `flux-system` namespace (where Flux stores its resources by default).
The default set of rules fall into three groups, discussed below, they are:
```yaml
rules:
# Flux Resources
- apiGroups: ["kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
  resources: [ "kustomizations" ]
  verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
- apiGroups: ["helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
  resources: [ "helmreleases" ]
  verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
- apiGroups: ["source.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
  resources: [ "buckets", "helmcharts", "gitrepositories", "helmrepositories", "ocirepositories" ]
  verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
- apiGroups: [ "notification.toolkit.fluxcd.io" ]
  resources: [ "providers", "alerts" ]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["infra.contrib.fluxcd.io"]
  resources: ["terraforms"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
# Resources managed via Flux
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["configmaps", "secrets", "pods", "services", "namespaces", "persistentvolumes", "persistentvolumeclaims"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["apps"]
  resources: [ "deployments", "replicasets", "statefulsets"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["batch"]
  resources: [ "jobs", "cronjobs"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["autoscaling"]
  resources: ["horizontalpodautoscalers"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
  resources: ["roles", "clusterroles", "rolebindings", "clusterrolebindings"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
- apiGroups: ["networking.k8s.io"]
  resources: ["ingresses"]
  verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
# Feedback
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["events"]
  verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
```


### Flux Resources

The resources that Flux works with directly, including the one from TF-controller.

| Api Group                      | Resources                                                               | Permissions      |
| ------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io    | kustomizations                                                          | get, list, patch |
| helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io         | helmreleases                                                            | get, list, patch |
| source.toolkit.fluxcd.io       | buckets, helmcharts, gitrepositories, helmrepositories, ocirepositories | get, list, patch |
| notification.toolkit.fluxcd.io | providers, alerts                                                       | get, list        |
| infra.contrib.fluxcd.io        | terraforms                                                              | get, list, patch |

In order for Weave GitOps to be able to accurately display the state of Flux it
needs to be able to query the [CRDs](https://fluxcd.io/docs/components/) that Flux uses. This is done using the
`get` and `list` permissions

The `patch` permissions are used for 2 features: to suspend and resume
reconciliation of a resource by modifying the 'spec' of a resource,
and to force reconciliation of a resource by modifying the annotations
of the resource. These features work the same way `flux suspend`,
`flux resume` and `flux reconcile` does on the CLI.

### Resources managed via Flux

| Api Group                 | Resources                                                                      | Permissions |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| ""                        | configmaps, secrets, pods, services, persistentvolumes, persistentvolumeclaims | get, list   |
| apps                      | deployments, replicasets, statefulsets                                         | get, list   |
| batch                     | jobs, cronjobs                                                                 | get, list   |
| autoscaling               | horizontalpodautoscalers                                                       | get, list   |
| rbac.authorization.k8s.io | roles, clusterroles, rolebindings, clusterrolebindings                         | get, list   |
| networking.k8s.io         | ingresses                                                                      | get, list   |

Weave GitOps reads basic resources so that it can monitor the effect that Flux has
on what's running.

Reading `secrets` enables Weave GitOps to monitor the state of Helm releases
as that's where it stores the [state by default](https://helm.sh/docs/faq/changes_since_helm2/#secrets-as-the-default-storage-driver).
For clarity this these are the Helm release objects _not_ the Flux HelmRelease
resource (which are dealt with by the earlier section).

### Feedback from Flux

The primary method by which Flux communicates the status of itself is by events,
these will show when reconciliations start and stop, whether they're successful
and information as to why they're not.
