website/versioned_docs/version-0.9.0/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
sidebar_position: 1
hide_title: true
---

import TierLabel from "./_components/TierLabel";
import CurlCodeBlock from "./_components/CurlCodeBlock";

## Installing Weave GitOps

This section details the steps required to install Weave GitOps on a Kubernetes cluster.

### Pre-requisites

#### Kubernetes Cluster
This version of Weave GitOps is tested against the following Kubernetes releases:
* 1.20
* 1.21
* 1.22
* 1.23
* 1.24

Note that the version of [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/#prerequisites) that you use might impose further minimum version requirements.

#### Install Flux
Weave GitOps is an extension to Flux and therefore requires that Flux 0.29 or later has already been installed on your Kubernetes cluster. Full documentation is avilable at: [https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/).

This version of Weave GitOps is tested against the following Flux releases:
* 0.29
* 0.30
* 0.31

### Install the Helm Chart
Weave GitOps is provided through a Helm Chart and installed as a Flux resource through a `HelmRepository` and `HelmRelease`. To install on your cluster, adjust the following so that `username` is the username you want and `passwordHash` is a bcrypt hash of your password, and commit the file to the location bootstrapped with Flux so that it is synchronized to your Cluster.

```
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: ww-gitops
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: weave-gitops
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: ww-gitops
  interval: 1m0s
  values:
    adminUser:
      create: true
      username: <UPDATE>
      passwordHash: <UPDATE>
---
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmRepository
metadata:
  name: ww-gitops
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 1m0s
  url: https://helm.gitops.weave.works
```

There are many other values you can configure - for more information, see [our value file reference](./references/helm-reference.md).

## Installing Weave GitOps Enterprise<TierLabel tiers="enterprise" />

Weave GitOps Enterprise (WGE) provides ops teams with an easy way to assess the
health of multiple clusters in a single place. It shows cluster information such as
Kubernetes version and number of nodes and provides details about the GitOps operations
on those clusters, such as Git repositories and recent commits. Additionally, it
aggregates Prometheus alerts to assist with troubleshooting.

To purchase entitlement to Weave GitOps Enterprise please contact [sales@weave.works](mailto:sales@weave.works)

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

To install Weave GitOps Enterprise

import TOCInline from "@theme/TOCInline";

<TOCInline toc={(() => {
           const trimStart = toc.slice(toc.findIndex((node) => node.id == 'installing-weave-gitops-enterprise')+1);
           return trimStart.slice(0, trimStart.findIndex((node) => node.level == '2'));
           })()} />

### 1. Setting up a Management Cluster with `flux`

To get you started in this document we'll cover:

- `kind` as our management cluster with the _CAPD_ provider
- **EKS** as our management cluster with the _CAPA_ provider

However Weave GitOps Enterprise supports any combination of management cluster and CAPI provider.

<Tabs groupId="infrastructure" default>
<TabItem value="kind" label="kind">

##### 1.1 We start with creating a kind-config.

```yaml title="kind-config.yaml"
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
nodes:
  - role: control-plane
    extraMounts:
      - hostPath: /var/run/docker.sock
        containerPath: /var/run/docker.sock
```

The `extraMounts` are for the Docker CAPI provider (CAPD) to be able to talk to the host docker

##### 1.2 Start your kind cluster using the configuration above and Kubernetes v1.23.6

```bash
kind create cluster --config kind-config.yaml --image=kindest/node:v1.23.6
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="eks" label="EKS">

##### 1.1 Prepare IAM for installation

The Cluster API needs special permissions in AWS. Use the `clusterawsadm` command below to roll out a CloudStack to installs the permissions into your AWS account. While the CloudStack is bound to a region, the resulting permissions are globally scoped. You can use any AWS Region that you have access to. The `clusterawsadm` command takes an AWSIAMConfiguration file. We have provided a working example for you :

```yaml title="eks-config.yaml"
apiVersion: bootstrap.aws.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: AWSIAMConfiguration
spec:
  bootstrapUser:
    enable: true
  eks:
    iamRoleCreation: false # Set to true if you plan to use the EKSEnableIAM feature flag to enable automatic creation of IAM roles
    defaultControlPlaneRole:
      disable: false # Set to false to enable creation of the default control plane role
    managedMachinePool:
      disable: false # Set to false to enable creation of the default node pool role
```

Run `clusterawsadm` command to create the IAM group.

```bash
$ clusterawsadm bootstrap iam create-cloudformation-stack --config eks-config.yaml --region $REGION
```

Create an IAM User. This user will be used as a kind of service account. Assign the newly created group to this user. The group name will be something like: `cluster-api-provider-aws-s-AWSIAMGroupBootstrapper-XXXX`. Create a secret for the newly created IAM user.

##### 1.2 Create the cluster

In testing we used the following values
`$INSTANCESIZE` : t3.large
`$NUMOFNODES` : 2
`$MINNODES` : 2
`$MAXNODES` : 6

```bash
eksctl create cluster -n "$CLUSTERNAME" -r "$REGION" --nodegroup-name workers -t $INSTANCESIZE --nodes $NUMOFNODES --nodes-min $MINNODES --nodes-max $MAXNODES --ssh-access --alb-ingress-access
```

##### 1.3 Add cluster to kubeconfig

Once the cluster is created, add the cluster to your `kubeconfig`

```bash
aws eks --region "$REGION" update-kubeconfig --name "$CLUSTERNAME"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

##### Install Flux onto your cluster with the `flux bootstrap` command.

<Tabs groupId="infrastructure" default>
<TabItem value="github" label="GITHUB">

```
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=<github username> \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/management \
  --personal
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GITLAB">

```
flux bootstrap gitlab \
  --owner=<gitlab username> \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/management \
  --personal
```

</TabItem>


</Tabs>

* **owner**      - The username (or organization) of the git repository
* **repository** - Git repository name
* **branch**     - Git branch (default "main")
* **path**       - path relative to the repository root, when specified the cluster sync will be scoped to this path
* **personal**   -  if set, the owner is assumed to be a repo user

More information about `flux` and the `flux bootstrap` command can be found [here](https://fluxcd.io/docs/cmd/)

:::note At this point a few things have occurred:
* Your Flux management cluster is now running
* A new git repo was created based on the parameters you set in the `flux bootstrap` command. Take a look at your repositories. 
:::

### 2. Install a CAPI provider

:::note `clusterctl` versions

The example templates provided in this guide have been tested with `clusterctl` version `1.1.3`. However you might need to use an older or newer version depending on the capi-providers you plan on using.

Download a specific version of clusterctl from the [releases page](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/releases).
:::

In order to be able to provision Kubernetes clusters, a CAPI provider needs to be installed. See [Cluster API Providers](./cluster-management/cluster-api-providers.mdx) page for more details on providers.
Here we'll continue with our example instructions for CAPD and CAPA.

<Tabs groupId="infrastructure" default>
<TabItem value="kind" label="CAPD (kind)">

```
# Enable support for `ClusterResourceSet`s for automatically installing CNIs
export EXP_CLUSTER_RESOURCE_SET=true

clusterctl init --infrastructure docker
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="eks" label="CAPA (EKS)">

```
export EXP_EKS=true
export EXP_MACHINE_POOL=true
export CAPA_EKS_IAM=true
export EXP_CLUSTER_RESOURCE_SET=true

clusterctl init --infrastructure aws
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 3. Apply the entitlements secret

Contact sales@weave.works for a valid entitlements secret. Then apply it to the cluster:

```bash
kubectl apply -f entitlements.yaml
```

### 4. Configure access for writing to git from the UI

<Tabs groupId="git-provider" default>
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">
GitHub requires no additional configuration for OAuth git access
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GitLab">

Create a GitLab OAuth Application that will request `api` permissions to create pull requests on the user's behalf.
Follow the [GitLab docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html).

The application should have at least these scopes:

- `api`
- `openid`
- `email`
- `profile`

Add callback URLs to the application for each address the UI will be exposed on, e.g.:

- `https://localhost:8000/oauth/gitlab` For port-forwarding and testing
- `https://git.example.com/oauth/gitlab` For production use

Save your application and take note of the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** and save
them into the `git-provider-credentials` secret along with:

- `GIT_HOST_TYPES` to tell WGE that the host is gitlab
- `GITLAB_HOSTNAME` where the OAuth app is hosted

**Replace values** in this snippet and run:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_CLIENT_ID=13457" \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET=24680" \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_HOSTNAME=git.example.com" \
  --from-literal="GIT_HOST_TYPES=git.example.com=gitlab"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


### 5. Configure and commit

We deploy WGE via a Helm chart. We'll save and adapt the below template, before commiting it to git to a flux-reconciled path.

Clone the newly created repo locally as we're gonna add some things!

```
git clone git@<provider>:<username>/fleet-infra
cd fleet-infra
```

Download the helm-release to `clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml` and tweak:

import ExampleWGE from "./assets/example-enterprise-helm.yaml";
import ExampleWGEContent from "!!raw-loader!./assets/example-enterprise-helm.yaml";

<CurlCodeBlock
  localPath="clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml"
  hostedPath={ExampleWGE}
  content={ExampleWGEContent}
/>

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryURL`
Ensure this has been set to your repository URL.

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryPath`
By default, WGE will create new clusters in the `clusters/management/clusters` path.
This can be configured with `values.config.capi.repositoryPath`.
For example you might what to change it to `clusters/my-cluster/cluster` if you configured flux to reconcile `./clusters/my-cluster` instead.

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryClustersPath`
The other important path to configure is where applications and workloads that will be run on the new cluster will be stored.
By default this is `./clusters`. When a new cluster is specified any profiles that have been selected will be written to `./clusters/{.clusterName}/profiles.yaml`.
When the new cluster is bootstrapped, flux will be sync the `./clusters/{.clusterName}` path.

Commit and push all the files

```
git add clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml
git commit -m "Deploy Weave GitOps Enterprise"
git push
```

Flux will reconcile the helm-release and WGE will be deployed into the cluster. You can check the `flux-system` namespace to verify all pods are running. 

### 6. Configure password

In order to login to the WGE UI, you need to generate a bcrypt hash for your chosen password and store it as a secret in the Kubernetes cluster.

Run the following Docker command and supply the password of your choice as an environment variable:

```bash
docker run -e PASSWORD="<your password>" -it golang:1.17 bash -c 'go install github.com/bitnami/bcrypt-cli@v1.0.2 2> /dev/null && echo -n $PASSWORD | bcrypt-cli'
```

Use the hashed output to create a Kubernetes username/password secret.

```bash
kubectl create secret generic cluster-user-auth \
  --namespace flux-system \
  --from-literal=username=wego-admin \
  --from-literal=password='$2a$.......'
```

### 7. Checking that WGE is installed

You should now be able to load the WGE UI by port forwarding. 

```bash
kubectl port-forward --namespace flux-system svc/clusters-service 8000:8000
```

The WGE UI should now be accessible at [https://localhost:8000](https://localhost:8000).

Use the username above and regular password (not the hashed version) to login.

Head over to either:

- [Getting started](./cluster-management/getting-started.mdx) to create your first CAPI Cluster with `kind`/CAPD
- [Deploying CAPA with EKS](./guides/deploying-capa.mdx) to create your first CAPI Cluster with EKS/CAPA.

## AWS Marketplace
Weave GitOps is also available via the AWS Marketplace.

The following steps will allow you to deploy the Weave GitOps product to an EKS cluster via a Helm Chart.

These instructions presume you already have installed [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/),
[`eksctl`](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl), [`helm`](https://github.com/helm/helm) and
the [Helm S3 Plugin](https://github.com/hypnoglow/helm-s3).

### Step 1: Subscribe to Weave GitOps on the AWS Marketplace

To deploy the managed Weave GitOps solution, first subscribe to the product on [AWS Marketplace](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-vkn2wejad2ix4).
**This subscription is only available for deployment on EKS versions 1.17-1.21.**

_Note: it may take ~20 minutes for your Subscription to become live and deployable._

### [Optional] Step 2: Create an EKS cluster

**If you already have an EKS cluster, you can skip ahead to Step 3.**

If you do not have a cluster on EKS, you can use [`eksctl`](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl) to create one.

Copy the contents of the sample file below into `cluster-config.yaml` and replace the placeholder values with your settings.
See the [`eksctl` documentation](https://eksctl.io/) for more configuration options.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
kind: ClusterConfig
metadata:
  name: CLUSTER_NAME # Change this
  region: REGION # Change this

# This section is required
iam:
  withOIDC: true
  serviceAccounts:
  - metadata:
      name: wego-service-account # Altering this will require a corresponding change in a later command
      namespace: flux-system
    roleOnly: true
    attachPolicy:
      Version: "2012-10-17"
      Statement:
      - Effect: Allow
        Action:
        - "aws-marketplace:RegisterUsage"
        Resource: '*'

# This section will create a single Managed nodegroup with one node.
# Edit or remove as desired.
managedNodeGroups:
- name: ng1
  instanceType: m5.large
  desiredCapacity: 1
```

Create the cluster:

```bash
eksctl create cluster -f cluster-config.yaml
```

### [Optional] Step 3: Update your EKS cluster

**If you created your cluster using the configuration file in Step 2, your cluster is
already configured correctly and you can skip ahead to Step 4.**

In order to use the Weave GitOps container product,
your cluster must be configured to run containers with the correct IAM Policies.

The recommended way to do this is via [IRSA](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/introducing-fine-grained-iam-roles-service-accounts/).

Use this `eksctl` configuration below (replacing the placeholder values) to:
- Associate an OIDC provider
- Create the required service account ARN

Save the example below as `oidc-config.yaml`
```yaml
---
apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
kind: ClusterConfig
metadata:
  name: CLUSTER_NAME # Change this
  region: REGION # Change this

# This section is required
iam:
  withOIDC: true
  serviceAccounts:
  - metadata:
      name: wego-service-account # Altering this will require a corresponding change in a later command
      namespace: flux-system
    roleOnly: true
    attachPolicy:
      Version: "2012-10-17"
      Statement:
      - Effect: Allow
        Action:
        - "aws-marketplace:RegisterUsage"
        Resource: '*'

```

```bash
eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider -f oidc-config.yaml --approve
eksctl create iamserviceaccount -f oidc-config.yaml --approve
```

### Step 4: Fetch the Service Account Role ARN
First retrieve the ARN of the IAM role which you created for the `wego-service-account`:

```bash
# replace the placeholder values with your configuration
# if you changed the service account name from wego-service-account, update that in the command
export SA_ARN=$(eksctl get iamserviceaccount --cluster <cluster-name> --region <region> | awk '/wego-service-account/ {print $3}')

echo $SA_ARN
# should return
# arn:aws:iam::<account-id>:role/eksctl-<cluster-name>-addon-iamserviceaccount-xxx-Role1-1N41MLVQEWUOF
```

_This value will also be discoverable in your IAM console, and in the Outputs of the Cloud Formation
template which created it._

### Step 5: Install Weave GitOps

Copy the Chart URL from Usage Instructions, or download the file from the Deployment template to your workstation.

```bash
helm install wego <URL/PATH> \
  --set serviceAccountRole="$SA_ARN"

# if you changed the name of the service account
helm install wego <URL/PATH> \
  --set serviceAccountName='<name>' \
  --set serviceAccountRole="$SA_ARN"
```

### Step 6: Check your installation

Run the following from your workstation:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n flux-system
# you should see something like the following returned
flux-system          helm-controller-5b96d94c7f-tds9n                    1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          image-automation-controller-5cf75fd555-zqm89        1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          image-reflector-controller-6787985855-l4q4g         1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          kustomize-controller-8467b8b884-x2cpd               1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          notification-controller-55f94bc746-ggmwc            1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          source-controller-78bfb8576-stnr5                   1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          wego-metering-f7jqp                                 1/1     Running   0          53s
```

Your Weave GitOps installation is now ready!

Commit message:

manual: Update AWS Marketplace installation instructions
This upgrades stable and HEAD manuals, for new the new AWS Marketplace
integration that uses our helm chart.

website/versioned_docs/version-0.9.0/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
sidebar_position: 1
hide_title: true
---

import TierLabel from "./_components/TierLabel";
import CurlCodeBlock from "./_components/CurlCodeBlock";

## Installing Weave GitOps

This section details the steps required to install Weave GitOps on a Kubernetes cluster.

### Pre-requisites

#### Kubernetes Cluster
This version of Weave GitOps is tested against the following Kubernetes releases:
* 1.20
* 1.21
* 1.22
* 1.23
* 1.24

Note that the version of [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/#prerequisites) that you use might impose further minimum version requirements.

#### Install Flux
Weave GitOps is an extension to Flux and therefore requires that Flux 0.29 or later has already been installed on your Kubernetes cluster. Full documentation is avilable at: [https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/).

This version of Weave GitOps is tested against the following Flux releases:
* 0.29
* 0.30
* 0.31

### Install the Helm Chart
Weave GitOps is provided through a Helm Chart and installed as a Flux resource through a `HelmRepository` and `HelmRelease`. To install on your cluster, adjust the following so that `username` is the username you want and `passwordHash` is a bcrypt hash of your password, and commit the file to the location bootstrapped with Flux so that it is synchronized to your Cluster.

```
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: ww-gitops
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: weave-gitops
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: ww-gitops
  interval: 1m0s
  values:
    adminUser:
      create: true
      username: <UPDATE>
      passwordHash: <UPDATE>
---
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmRepository
metadata:
  name: ww-gitops
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 1m0s
  url: https://helm.gitops.weave.works
```

There are many other values you can configure - for more information, see [our value file reference](./references/helm-reference.md).

## Installing Weave GitOps Enterprise<TierLabel tiers="enterprise" />

Weave GitOps Enterprise (WGE) provides ops teams with an easy way to assess the
health of multiple clusters in a single place. It shows cluster information such as
Kubernetes version and number of nodes and provides details about the GitOps operations
on those clusters, such as Git repositories and recent commits. Additionally, it
aggregates Prometheus alerts to assist with troubleshooting.

To purchase entitlement to Weave GitOps Enterprise please contact [sales@weave.works](mailto:sales@weave.works)

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

To install Weave GitOps Enterprise

import TOCInline from "@theme/TOCInline";

<TOCInline toc={(() => {
           const trimStart = toc.slice(toc.findIndex((node) => node.id == 'installing-weave-gitops-enterprise')+1);
           return trimStart.slice(0, trimStart.findIndex((node) => node.level == '2'));
           })()} />

### 1. Setting up a Management Cluster with `flux`

To get you started in this document we'll cover:

- `kind` as our management cluster with the _CAPD_ provider
- **EKS** as our management cluster with the _CAPA_ provider

However Weave GitOps Enterprise supports any combination of management cluster and CAPI provider.

<Tabs groupId="infrastructure" default>
<TabItem value="kind" label="kind">

##### 1.1 We start with creating a kind-config.

```yaml title="kind-config.yaml"
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
nodes:
  - role: control-plane
    extraMounts:
      - hostPath: /var/run/docker.sock
        containerPath: /var/run/docker.sock
```

The `extraMounts` are for the Docker CAPI provider (CAPD) to be able to talk to the host docker

##### 1.2 Start your kind cluster using the configuration above and Kubernetes v1.23.6

```bash
kind create cluster --config kind-config.yaml --image=kindest/node:v1.23.6
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="eks" label="EKS">

##### 1.1 Prepare IAM for installation

The Cluster API needs special permissions in AWS. Use the `clusterawsadm` command below to roll out a CloudStack to installs the permissions into your AWS account. While the CloudStack is bound to a region, the resulting permissions are globally scoped. You can use any AWS Region that you have access to. The `clusterawsadm` command takes an AWSIAMConfiguration file. We have provided a working example for you :

```yaml title="eks-config.yaml"
apiVersion: bootstrap.aws.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: AWSIAMConfiguration
spec:
  bootstrapUser:
    enable: true
  eks:
    iamRoleCreation: false # Set to true if you plan to use the EKSEnableIAM feature flag to enable automatic creation of IAM roles
    defaultControlPlaneRole:
      disable: false # Set to false to enable creation of the default control plane role
    managedMachinePool:
      disable: false # Set to false to enable creation of the default node pool role
```

Run `clusterawsadm` command to create the IAM group.

```bash
$ clusterawsadm bootstrap iam create-cloudformation-stack --config eks-config.yaml --region $REGION
```

Create an IAM User. This user will be used as a kind of service account. Assign the newly created group to this user. The group name will be something like: `cluster-api-provider-aws-s-AWSIAMGroupBootstrapper-XXXX`. Create a secret for the newly created IAM user.

##### 1.2 Create the cluster

In testing we used the following values
`$INSTANCESIZE` : t3.large
`$NUMOFNODES` : 2
`$MINNODES` : 2
`$MAXNODES` : 6

```bash
eksctl create cluster -n "$CLUSTERNAME" -r "$REGION" --nodegroup-name workers -t $INSTANCESIZE --nodes $NUMOFNODES --nodes-min $MINNODES --nodes-max $MAXNODES --ssh-access --alb-ingress-access
```

##### 1.3 Add cluster to kubeconfig

Once the cluster is created, add the cluster to your `kubeconfig`

```bash
aws eks --region "$REGION" update-kubeconfig --name "$CLUSTERNAME"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

##### Install Flux onto your cluster with the `flux bootstrap` command.

<Tabs groupId="infrastructure" default>
<TabItem value="github" label="GITHUB">

```
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=<github username> \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/management \
  --personal
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GITLAB">

```
flux bootstrap gitlab \
  --owner=<gitlab username> \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/management \
  --personal
```

</TabItem>


</Tabs>

* **owner**      - The username (or organization) of the git repository
* **repository** - Git repository name
* **branch**     - Git branch (default "main")
* **path**       - path relative to the repository root, when specified the cluster sync will be scoped to this path
* **personal**   -  if set, the owner is assumed to be a repo user

More information about `flux` and the `flux bootstrap` command can be found [here](https://fluxcd.io/docs/cmd/)

:::note At this point a few things have occurred:
* Your Flux management cluster is now running
* A new git repo was created based on the parameters you set in the `flux bootstrap` command. Take a look at your repositories. 
:::

### 2. Install a CAPI provider

:::note `clusterctl` versions

The example templates provided in this guide have been tested with `clusterctl` version `1.1.3`. However you might need to use an older or newer version depending on the capi-providers you plan on using.

Download a specific version of clusterctl from the [releases page](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/releases).
:::

In order to be able to provision Kubernetes clusters, a CAPI provider needs to be installed. See [Cluster API Providers](./cluster-management/cluster-api-providers.mdx) page for more details on providers.
Here we'll continue with our example instructions for CAPD and CAPA.

<Tabs groupId="infrastructure" default>
<TabItem value="kind" label="CAPD (kind)">

```
# Enable support for `ClusterResourceSet`s for automatically installing CNIs
export EXP_CLUSTER_RESOURCE_SET=true

clusterctl init --infrastructure docker
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="eks" label="CAPA (EKS)">

```
export EXP_EKS=true
export EXP_MACHINE_POOL=true
export CAPA_EKS_IAM=true
export EXP_CLUSTER_RESOURCE_SET=true

clusterctl init --infrastructure aws
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 3. Apply the entitlements secret

Contact sales@weave.works for a valid entitlements secret. Then apply it to the cluster:

```bash
kubectl apply -f entitlements.yaml
```

### 4. Configure access for writing to git from the UI

<Tabs groupId="git-provider" default>
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">
GitHub requires no additional configuration for OAuth git access
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GitLab">

Create a GitLab OAuth Application that will request `api` permissions to create pull requests on the user's behalf.
Follow the [GitLab docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html).

The application should have at least these scopes:

- `api`
- `openid`
- `email`
- `profile`

Add callback URLs to the application for each address the UI will be exposed on, e.g.:

- `https://localhost:8000/oauth/gitlab` For port-forwarding and testing
- `https://git.example.com/oauth/gitlab` For production use

Save your application and take note of the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** and save
them into the `git-provider-credentials` secret along with:

- `GIT_HOST_TYPES` to tell WGE that the host is gitlab
- `GITLAB_HOSTNAME` where the OAuth app is hosted

**Replace values** in this snippet and run:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_CLIENT_ID=13457" \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET=24680" \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_HOSTNAME=git.example.com" \
  --from-literal="GIT_HOST_TYPES=git.example.com=gitlab"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


### 5. Configure and commit

We deploy WGE via a Helm chart. We'll save and adapt the below template, before commiting it to git to a flux-reconciled path.

Clone the newly created repo locally as we're gonna add some things!

```
git clone git@<provider>:<username>/fleet-infra
cd fleet-infra
```

Download the helm-release to `clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml` and tweak:

import ExampleWGE from "./assets/example-enterprise-helm.yaml";
import ExampleWGEContent from "!!raw-loader!./assets/example-enterprise-helm.yaml";

<CurlCodeBlock
  localPath="clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml"
  hostedPath={ExampleWGE}
  content={ExampleWGEContent}
/>

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryURL`
Ensure this has been set to your repository URL.

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryPath`
By default, WGE will create new clusters in the `clusters/management/clusters` path.
This can be configured with `values.config.capi.repositoryPath`.
For example you might what to change it to `clusters/my-cluster/cluster` if you configured flux to reconcile `./clusters/my-cluster` instead.

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryClustersPath`
The other important path to configure is where applications and workloads that will be run on the new cluster will be stored.
By default this is `./clusters`. When a new cluster is specified any profiles that have been selected will be written to `./clusters/{.clusterName}/profiles.yaml`.
When the new cluster is bootstrapped, flux will be sync the `./clusters/{.clusterName}` path.

Commit and push all the files

```
git add clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml
git commit -m "Deploy Weave GitOps Enterprise"
git push
```

Flux will reconcile the helm-release and WGE will be deployed into the cluster. You can check the `flux-system` namespace to verify all pods are running. 

### 6. Configure password

In order to login to the WGE UI, you need to generate a bcrypt hash for your chosen password and store it as a secret in the Kubernetes cluster.

Run the following Docker command and supply the password of your choice as an environment variable:

```bash
docker run -e PASSWORD="<your password>" -it golang:1.17 bash -c 'go install github.com/bitnami/bcrypt-cli@v1.0.2 2> /dev/null && echo -n $PASSWORD | bcrypt-cli'
```

Use the hashed output to create a Kubernetes username/password secret.

```bash
kubectl create secret generic cluster-user-auth \
  --namespace flux-system \
  --from-literal=username=wego-admin \
  --from-literal=password='$2a$.......'
```

### 7. Checking that WGE is installed

You should now be able to load the WGE UI by port forwarding. 

```bash
kubectl port-forward --namespace flux-system svc/clusters-service 8000:8000
```

The WGE UI should now be accessible at [https://localhost:8000](https://localhost:8000).

Use the username above and regular password (not the hashed version) to login.

Head over to either:

- [Getting started](./cluster-management/getting-started.mdx) to create your first CAPI Cluster with `kind`/CAPD
- [Deploying CAPA with EKS](./guides/deploying-capa.mdx) to create your first CAPI Cluster with EKS/CAPA.

## AWS Marketplace
Weave GitOps is also available via the AWS Marketplace.

The following steps will allow you to deploy the Weave GitOps product to an EKS cluster via a Helm Chart.

These instructions presume you already have installed [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/),
[`eksctl`](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl), [`helm`](https://github.com/helm/helm) and
the [Helm S3 Plugin](https://github.com/hypnoglow/helm-s3).

### Step 1: Subscribe to Weave GitOps on the AWS Marketplace

To deploy the managed Weave GitOps solution, first subscribe to the product on [AWS Marketplace](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-vkn2wejad2ix4).
**This subscription is only available for deployment on EKS versions 1.17-1.21.**

_Note: it may take ~20 minutes for your Subscription to become live and deployable._

### [Optional] Step 2: Create an EKS cluster

**If you already have an EKS cluster, you can skip ahead to Step 3.**

If you do not have a cluster on EKS, you can use [`eksctl`](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl) to create one.

Copy the contents of the sample file below into `cluster-config.yaml` and replace the placeholder values with your settings.
See the [`eksctl` documentation](https://eksctl.io/) for more configuration options.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
kind: ClusterConfig
metadata:
  name: CLUSTER_NAME # Change this
  region: REGION # Change this

# This section is required
iam:
  withOIDC: true
  serviceAccounts:
  - metadata:
      name: wego-service-account # Altering this will require a corresponding change in a later command
      namespace: flux-system
    roleOnly: true
    attachPolicy:
      Version: "2012-10-17"
      Statement:
      - Effect: Allow
        Action:
        - "aws-marketplace:RegisterUsage"
        Resource: '*'

# This section will create a single Managed nodegroup with one node.
# Edit or remove as desired.
managedNodeGroups:
- name: ng1
  instanceType: m5.large
  desiredCapacity: 1
```

Create the cluster:

```bash
eksctl create cluster -f cluster-config.yaml
```

### [Optional] Step 3: Update your EKS cluster

**If you created your cluster using the configuration file in Step 2, your cluster is
already configured correctly and you can skip ahead to Step 4.**

In order to use the Weave GitOps container product,
your cluster must be configured to run containers with the correct IAM Policies.

The recommended way to do this is via [IRSA](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/introducing-fine-grained-iam-roles-service-accounts/).

Use this `eksctl` configuration below (replacing the placeholder values) to:
- Associate an OIDC provider
- Create the required service account ARN

Save the example below as `oidc-config.yaml`
```yaml
---
apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
kind: ClusterConfig
metadata:
  name: CLUSTER_NAME # Change this
  region: REGION # Change this

# This section is required
iam:
  withOIDC: true
  serviceAccounts:
  - metadata:
      name: wego-service-account # Altering this will require a corresponding change in a later command
      namespace: flux-system
    roleOnly: true
    attachPolicy:
      Version: "2012-10-17"
      Statement:
      - Effect: Allow
        Action:
        - "aws-marketplace:RegisterUsage"
        Resource: '*'

```

```bash
eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider -f oidc-config.yaml --approve
eksctl create iamserviceaccount -f oidc-config.yaml --approve
```

### Step 4: Fetch the Service Account Role ARN
First retrieve the ARN of the IAM role which you created for the `wego-service-account`:

```bash
# replace the placeholder values with your configuration
# if you changed the service account name from wego-service-account, update that in the command
export SA_ARN=$(eksctl get iamserviceaccount --cluster <cluster-name> --region <region> | awk '/wego-service-account/ {print $3}')

echo $SA_ARN
# should return
# arn:aws:iam::<account-id>:role/eksctl-<cluster-name>-addon-iamserviceaccount-xxx-Role1-1N41MLVQEWUOF
```

_This value will also be discoverable in your IAM console, and in the Outputs of the Cloud Formation
template which created it._

### Step 5: Install Weave GitOps

Copy the Chart URL from the Usage Instructions in AWS Marketplace, or download the file from the Deployment template to your workstation.

To be able to log in to your new installation, you need to set up authentication. Create a new file `values.yaml` where you set your username, and a bcrypt hash of your desired password, like so:

```yaml title="./values.yaml"
gitops:
  adminUser:
    create: true
    username: <UPDATE>
    passwordHash: <UPDATE>
```

Then install it:
```bash
helm install wego <URL/PATH> \
  --namespace=flux-system \
  --create-namespace \
  --set serviceAccountRole="$SA_ARN" \
  --values ./values.yaml

# if you changed the name of the service account
helm install wego <URL/PATH> \
  --namespace=flux-system \
  --create-namespace \
  --set serviceAccountName='<name>' \
  --set serviceAccountRole="$SA_ARN" \
  --values ./values.yaml
```

### Step 6: Check your installation

Run the following from your workstation:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n flux-system
# you should see something like the following returned
flux-system          helm-controller-5b96d94c7f-tds9n                    1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          kustomize-controller-8467b8b884-x2cpd               1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          notification-controller-55f94bc746-ggmwc            1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          source-controller-78bfb8576-stnr5                   1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          wego-metering-f7jqp                                 1/1     Running   0          53s
flux-system          ww-gitops-weave-gitops-5bdc9f7744-vkh65             1/1     Running   0          53s
```

Your Weave GitOps installation is now ready!

The quickest way to access your dashboard is by setting up a port forward:
```
kubectl port-forward svc/ww-gitops-weave-gitops -n flux-system 9001:9001
```
Then, [open the dashboard](http://localhost:9001/).
